seo used to be simple you write an
article on a topic and over time you get
rankings you get some traffic even if
you're not on page one it wasn't that
competitive and you get results but now
with over a billion blogs on the
internet seo has become super
competitive just think about that that's
roughly one blog for every seven people
and the way you get traffic and the
method you use to get those rankings has
changed hey everyone i'm neil patel and
today i'm going to break down the
painful truth about seo and how you can
succeed in today's market
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
let's look at this query i'm going to
google the term seo as you can see here
135 000 monthly searches according to
uber says
but check out how many results there are
593 million
just think about that 593 million
results 135 000 searches you see
something off here there's just a lot
more people competing for these keywords
that aren't getting tons and tons of
traffic
let's type in the word digital marketing
and the traffic isn't too bad don't get
me wrong these are more so head terms
but still
digital marketing
monthly searches 60 000 searches results
16 billion let's put it in quotes maybe
that'll change something
so now when i put it into quotes you
have
doesn't tell me how many results there
are maybe at the bottom it will
still doesn't tell me but either way
a lot of results and not a ton of
searches compared to how many results
let me try that for online marketing in
quotes 71 million results in 7.4 seconds
9 000 searches a month now let's go back
to digital marketing still don't see it
maybe if i
go to the right nope either way
a lot of searches are not that many
searches in comparison to how many uh
that have content around the word
digital marketing and again i can't see
the number in quotes but without quotes
there's roughly 16 billion you got that
right 16 billion
so how do you get traffic in today's
world well it really is all about the
long tail and i want to show you the
neil patel blog so you can see for
example
how to read your website source code and
why it's important
the key word here
i'm going after not just website source
code i'm going after
reading your website source code so
let's type in
how to read
website
source code
and as you can see here
if you look at the searches not a ton of
searches it'll load soon enough and
you'll be able to see
but it's something better than nothing
10 and then when you look at a term like
source code website source code you got
480 searches and if you go after
a website code maybe that'll be a little
bit better
you have 8 000 searches
in essence though i'm going after really
really long tail terms here's another
one
how to use facebook creative hub
right i'm going after facebook
creative
hub
and if you can see here facebook
creative hub only 2 400 searches
how to use thought leadership marketing
with paid ads i'm not just talking about
thought leadership i'm talking about
thought leadership marketing with paid
ads how to make evergreen pay-per-click
ads i'm not talking about just
pay-per-click ads i'm going after the
term evergreen pay-per-click ads and the
list goes on and on and if you keep
scrolling on the neil patel blog you'll
see this the eight most important
conversion rate metrics you should be
tracking 25 marketing books you should
be reading this one's a little bit more
generic marketing books
you know how to leverage testimonials
in
paid campaigns
and i'm just showing you how to use
testimonials not just in general but in
your paid advertising campaigns
uh
and
google adwords uh certified right or
certification
instagram story highlights
on a brand account i'm getting very
specific with my content
and let's take this one as an example of
instagram story highlight so here i'm on
ubersuggest you can just go to neil
patel i'll actually go to neilpatel.com
ubersuggest
and
let's type in the keyword instagram
story highlights instagram
story
highlights
and i'm searching in english united
states
3600 searches per month as you can see
here i'm getting very very specific with
my search queries and you can see a lot
of people have content on these keywords
in the middle you can see keyword
recommendations and let's click on view
all keyword ideas
and you can see that
there's other things that i could end up
talking about which generates traffic as
well such as instagram story highlight
icons instagram story highlight covers
but i go over and i optimize for all
these keywords
and what i want you to do is start
looking for longer tail keywords so for
example
if i have something on
let's
dive a little bit deeper
uh
photoshop right as you can see here this
article is on photoshop classes
and let's go back to ubersuggest and
let's type in photoshop
classes
instead of just optimizing for head
terms ex photoshop classes i want you to
look for long tail terms photoshop
classes online
photoshop classes near me photoshop
classes online for free photoshop
classes for beginners and there's other
related you know terms as well but as
you can see here i'm going for long tail
terms so what i want you to do as an
uber suggest is typing keywords that you
may be going after if i type in
photoshop because a lot of my marketers
need to deal with design tools and
editing images for blog posts or social
media
you can see that is photoshop free
photoshop online download photoshop
photoshop remove background photoshop
elements
i would start writing articles on all
these detailed terms like how to resize
images in photoshop how to remove your
background using photoshop by doing this
you'll generate more traffic by
optimizing for all the long tail terms
and it may not be something that
is appealing and
is what you want to do but that's how
you succeed in the world of seo today in
which you need to write a lot of traffic
or content around these long tail terms
if you want tons and tons of traffic
and by doing it i'll show you what ends
up happening to your traffic if you look
here this is the neilpatel.com google
analytics
i'm going to end up showing you
real-time stats let's click on real time
hopefully it loads soon got a lot of
data
let's go to
global
and let's go to real time you can see
here
1962 people on my website right then
right now
all because i'm writing all this long
tail content that's how you win in the
game of seo in today's world
so if you enjoyed this video like it
share it tell the people about it if you
you know need help with your marketing
or seo you can check out my ad agency
neil patel digital
and thank you for watching and make sure
you subscribe to this channel